en/more-06.md, before:

---
<<<<<<< HEAD
title: More on: Extending LaTeX using packages
=======
title: "More on: Extending LaTeX using packages and definitions"
>>>>>>> eeeda314... Sync with main repository.
---
<<<<<<< HEAD
=======

## Loading multiple packages

The `\usepackage` command takes a comma-separated list of packages, so you can
load several in one go: `\usepackage{color,graphicx}` for example. If you are
passing options to a package, they will apply to each of the packages in the list.
It's also easier to comment out packages if they are loaded separately. So we
will stick to loading each package on a separate line.

## The `babel` package

We showed the `babel` package [in the main lesson](lesson-06) as a way to choose
different hyphenation patterns. It does a lot more than that, depending on the
language(s) being used. For example, in German, it provides some shorthands for
creating 'soft' hyphens, and also a way to quickly type umlauts without needing
a German keyboard. Note also how the section heading  _Table of Contents_
normally generated by `\tableofcontents` is changed to
the German Inhaltsverzeichnis.

```latex
\documentclass{article}
\usepackage[T1]{fontenc}

\usepackage[ngerman]{babel} % Notice that the option name is 'ngerman'

\begin{document}

\tableofcontents

\section{"Uber "Apfel und Birnen}

\subsection{Äpfel}
Äpfel sind rot.

\subsection{Birnen}
Birnen sind gelb.


\end{document}
```

Other language settings make design changes: for example, in traditional
<<<<<<< HEAD
French typography, there is a space before `:`, and this is added if you
load `babel` with the option `french`.
>>>>>>> 3b5c2b8f... corrections from Barbara
=======
French typography, there is a space before some punctuation signs, like `:`,
and this is added automatically if you load `babel` with the option `french`.

## Global options

Sometimes, you want an option to be available to all of the packages you've
loaded. That is done by giving it on the `\documentclass` line: every package
can 'see' this list. So to pass the language of a document to all packages,
we might use:

```latex
\documentclass[ngerman]{article} % Notice that the option name is 'ngerman'
\usepackage[T1]{fontenc}

\usepackage{babel}

\begin{document}

\tableofcontents

\section{"Uber "Apfel und Birnen}

\subsection{Äpfel}
Äpfel sind rot.

\subsection{Birnen}
Birnen sind gelb.

\end{document}
```
<<<<<<< HEAD
>>>>>>> 7ea6c909... add [T1]{fontenc} and adjust error line numbers
=======

## More definitions

`\newcommand` allows commands with up to nine arguments, the first of which may be optional.

If we take the example from the main lesson, we could make the color
optional, defaulting to blue.

```
\documentclass{article}
\usepackage[T1]{fontenc}

\usepackage{xcolor}

\newcommand\kw[2][blue]{\textcolor{#1}{\itshape #2}}

\begin{document}

Something about \kw{apples} and \kw[red]{oranges}.

\end{document}
```

Optional arguments are delimited with `[]` and if omitted, the default
value specified in the definition is used.

## `\NewDocumentCommand`

From the October 2020 LaTeX release, an extended definition system is available.
In older LaTeX releases this was available via the `xparse` package which we use
here for compatibility.

We can repeat the above example but using `\NewDocumentCommand`

```
\documentclass{article}
\usepackage[T1]{fontenc}

\usepackage{xparse} % Only needed for older LaTeX releases
\usepackage{xcolor}

\NewDocumentCommand\kw{O{blue} m}{\textcolor{#1}{\itshape #2}}

\begin{document}

Something about \kw{apples} and \kw[red]{oranges}.

\end{document}
```

Just as with `\newcommand`, `\NewDocumentCommand` takes the command
being defined (`\kw` here) and the definition body, using `#1` to `#9`
for the arguments, however the difference is in how the arguments are
specified.

Unlike `\newcommand` where just the number of arguments is given,
optionally supplying a default for the first, with
`\NewDocumentCommand` each argument is specified by a letter so a two
argument command would be specified by `{mm}` rather than `[2]`. This
is slightly more verbose but allows many more forms of commands to be
defined. Here we just give this simple example where the first
argument is optional, defaulting to blue (`O{blue}`) and the second
argument is mandatory (`m`).
<<<<<<< HEAD
<<<<<<< HEAD
>>>>>>> eeeda314... Sync with main repository.
=======
>>>>>>> 9a2e269b... Merge in changes from PR #95
=======

>>>>>>> 6cc3ccdf... merge in changes from PR #95

Commit message:

Synchronisation with learnlatex.github.io

en/more-06.md, after:

---
title: "More on: Extending LaTeX using packages and definitions"
---

## Loading multiple packages

The `\usepackage` command takes a comma-separated list of packages, so you can
load several in one go: `\usepackage{color,graphicx}` for example. If you are
passing options to a package, they will apply to each of the packages in the list.
It's also easier to comment out packages if they are loaded
separately.  So we will stick to loading each package on a separate line.

## The `babel` package

We showed the `babel` package [in the main lesson](lesson-06) as a way to choose
different hyphenation patterns. It does a lot more than that, depending on the
language(s) being used. For example, in German, it provides some shorthands for
creating 'soft' hyphens, and also a way to quickly type umlauts without needing
a German keyboard. Note also how the section heading  _Table of Contents_
normally generated by `\tableofcontents` is changed to
the German Inhaltsverzeichnis.

```latex
\documentclass{article}
\usepackage[T1]{fontenc}

\usepackage[ngerman]{babel} % Notice that the option name is 'ngerman'

\begin{document}

\tableofcontents

\section{"Uber "Apfel und Birnen}

\subsection{Äpfel}
Äpfel sind rot.

\subsection{Birnen}
Birnen sind gelb.


\end{document}
```

Other language settings make design changes: for example, in traditional
French typography, there is a space before some punctuation signs, like `:`,
and this is added automatically if you load `babel` with the option `french`.

## Global options

Sometimes, you want an option to be available to all of the packages you've
loaded. That is done by giving it on the `\documentclass` line: every package
can 'see' this list. So to pass the language of a document to all packages,
we might use:

```latex
\documentclass[ngerman]{article} % Notice that the option name is 'ngerman'
\usepackage[T1]{fontenc}

\usepackage{babel}

\begin{document}

\tableofcontents

\section{"Uber "Apfel und Birnen}

\subsection{Äpfel}
Äpfel sind rot.

\subsection{Birnen}
Birnen sind gelb.

\end{document}
```

## More definitions

`\newcommand` allows commands with up to nine arguments, the first of which may be optional.

If we take the example from the main lesson, we could make the color
optional, defaulting to blue.

```latex
\documentclass{article}
\usepackage[T1]{fontenc}

\usepackage{xcolor}

\newcommand\kw[2][blue]{\textcolor{#1}{\itshape #2}}

\begin{document}

Something about \kw{apples} and \kw[red]{oranges}.

\end{document}
```

Optional arguments are delimited with `[]` and if omitted, the default
value specified in the definition is used.

## `\NewDocumentCommand`

From the October 2020 LaTeX release, an extended definition system is available.
In older LaTeX releases this was available via the `xparse` package which we use
here for compatibility.

We can repeat the above example but using `\NewDocumentCommand`

```latex
\documentclass{article}
\usepackage[T1]{fontenc}

\usepackage{xparse} % Only needed for older LaTeX releases
\usepackage{xcolor}

\NewDocumentCommand\kw{O{blue} m}{\textcolor{#1}{\itshape #2}}

\begin{document}

Something about \kw{apples} and \kw[red]{oranges}.

\end{document}
```

Just as with `\newcommand`, `\NewDocumentCommand` takes the command
being defined (`\kw` here) and the definition body, using `#1` to `#9`
for the arguments, however the difference is in how the arguments are
specified.

Unlike `\newcommand` where just the number of arguments is given,
optionally supplying a default for the first, with
`\NewDocumentCommand` each argument is specified by a letter so a two
argument command would be specified by `{mm}` rather than `[2]`. This
is slightly more verbose but allows many more forms of commands to be
defined. Here we just give this simple example where the first
argument is optional, defaulting to blue (`O{blue}`) and the second
argument is mandatory (`m`).
